Skip to content
Docs
Getting Started
Avatar for clientumlatam-4461

Projects
Environment Variables
Environment variables

Environment variables are key-value pairs configured outside your source code so that each value can change depending on the Environment. These values are encrypted at rest and visible to any user that has access to the project. It is safe to use both non-sensitive and sensitive data, such as tokens.

Your source code can read these values to change behavior during the Build Step or during Function execution.

Any change you make to environment variables are not applied to previous deployments, they only apply to new deployments.
Creating environment variables

Environment variables can either be declared at the team or project level. When declared at the team level, they are available to all projects within the team. When declared at the project level, they are only available to that project.

To learn how to create and manage environment variables, see Managing environment variables.
Environment variable size

Developers on all plans using the runtimes stated below can use a total of 64 KB in Environments Variables per-Deployment on Vercel. This limit is for all variables combined, and so no single variable can be larger than 64 KB. The total size includes any variables configured through the dashboard or the CLI.

With support for 64 KB of environment variables, you can add large values for authentication tokens, JWTs, or certificates.

Deployments using the following runtimes can support environment variables up to 64 KB:

    Node.js
    Python
    Ruby
    Go
    PHP Community Runtime

Vercel also provides support for custom runtimes, through the Build Output API. For information on creating custom runtime support, see the following guides:

    Guides for runtime builders
    Build Output API documentation

While Vercel allows environment variables up to a total of 64KB in size, Edge Functions and Middleware using the edge runtime are limited to 5KB per Environment Variable.
Environments

For each Environment Variable, you can select one or more Environments to apply the Variable to:
Environment	Description
Production	When selected, the Environment Variable will be applied to your next Production Deployment. To create a Production Deployment, push a commit to the Production Branch (usually main) or run vercel --prod.
Preview	The Environment Variable is applied to your next Preview Deployment. Preview Deployments are created when you push to a branch that is not the Production Branch or run vercel.
Custom environments	With custom environments you can choose to import environment variables from another environment and detach when you need to update the environment variable for your custom environment
Development	The Environment Variable is used when running your project locally with vercel dev or your preferred development command. To download Development Environment Variables, run vercel env pull.
Preview environment variables

You need Vercel CLI version 22.0.0 or higher to use the features described in this section.

Preview environment variables are applied to deployments from any Git branch that does not match the Production Branch. When you add a preview environment variable, you can choose to apply to all non-production branches or you can select a specific branch.
Adding an Environment Variable
Adding an Environment Variable

Any branch-specific variables will override other preview environment variables with the same name. This means you don't need to replicate all your existing preview environment variables for each branch – you only need to add the values you wish to override.
Development environment variables

You need Vercel CLI version 21.0.1 or higher to use the features described in this section.

Environment variables for local development are defined in the .env.local file. This is a plain text file that contains key=value pairs of environment variables, that you can manually create in your project's root directory to define specific variables.

You can use the vercel env pull command to automatically create and populate the .env file (which serves the same purpose as .env.local) with the environment variables from your Vercel project:

vercel env pull
Downloading Development Environment Variables for Project my-lovely-project
✅ Created .env file [510ms]

This command creates a .env file in your project's current directory with the environment variables from your Vercel project's Development environment.

If you're using vercel dev, there's no need to run vercel env pull, as vercel dev automatically downloads the Development Environment Variables into memory. For more information on the vercel env command, see the CLI docs.

For more information, see Environment variables for local development.
Integration environment variables

Integrations can automatically add environment variables to your Project Settings. In that case, the Integration that added the Variable will be displayed in your project settings:
An Environment Variable added by the MongoDB Integration.
An Environment Variable added by the MongoDB Integration.
Last updated June 16, 2026
Previous
Transferring a project
Next
Framework Environment Variables

Was this helpful?
supported.
On this page

    Creating environment variables
    Environment variable size
    Environments
    Preview environment variables
    Development environment variables
    Integration environment variables

Agent Stack

    AI SDK
    AI Gateway
    Sandbox
    Workflows
    ConnectNew
    PassportNew
    eveNew

Core Platform

    CI/CD
    Content Delivery
    Fluid Compute
    Observability

Security

    Platform Security
    WAF
    Bot Management
    Bot ID

Tools

    Vercel DropNew
    Vercel Agent
    Vercel PluginNew
    Agent Skills
    Next.js
    Domains
    v0

Frameworks

    eveNew
    Nuxt
    SvelteKit
    Nitro
    Turborepo
    Tanstack Start
    FastAPI
    xmcp
    All frameworks

SDKs

    Vercel SDK
    Workflow SDKNew
    Flags SDK
    Chat SDKNew
    Queues SDKNew
    Streamdown

Build

    AI Apps
    Web Apps
    Marketing Sites
    Platforms
    Commerce
    Platform Engineers
    Design Engineers

Learn

    Docs
    Blog
    Changelog
    Knowledge Base
    Academy
    Articles
    Community

Explore

    Customers
    Marketplace
    Templates
    Partner Finder
    Vercel + AWS

Company

    About
    Careers
    Press
    Events
    Startups
    Shipped on Vercel
    Open Source Program
    Enterprise
    Pricing
    Help

Legal & Trust

    Privacy Policy
    Terms of Service
    Cookie Policy
    DPA
    Acceptable Use Policy
    Legal (all documents)
    Trust Center
    Status

Social

    GitHub
    X
    LinkedIn
    YouTube
    Instagram

    Vercel

All systems normal.
Select a display theme:
system
light
dark
Ask AI

export Environment variables
clientumlatam-4461

I'd like to help you with exporting environment variables! To give you the most accurate guidance, could you clarify a bit more:

    Are you trying to export environment variables in your Vercel project (to make them available to your application)?
    Are you trying to view or download environment variables that are already set in Vercel?
    Are you working with a specific framework or technology (like Next.js, Node.js, etc.)?
    Are you doing this in your local development environment or in your Vercel dashboard?

Once I understand your specific use case, I can provide you with the right steps!

Are you trying to view or download environment variables that are already set in Vercel?
clientumlatam-4461

To view or download environment variables from Vercel, you have two main options:

Using the Vercel CLI (recommended for local development):

If you want to download your environment variables to a .env file for local development, use the vercel env pull command:

vercel env pull

This will export your project's environment variables to a .env.local file in your project directory, making them available when you run your local development server.

Using the Vercel Dashboard:

You can also view your environment variables directly in the dashboard under Settings > Environment Variables for your project. However, sensitive values are masked for security reasons, so you won't be able to see the actual values of secrets that are 32 characters or longer.

If you need to run a command with environment variables without writing them to a file, you can use:

vercel env run -- <your-command>

This will fetch the environment variables directly from your linked Vercel project and pass them to your specified command.

Is there a specific use case you're trying to accomplish with these environment variables?
Environment variables
